---
layout: post
title: Alcohol
---

Am i really talking about alcohol?

I've been contemplating this topic lately, but it was a YouTube video that compelled me to write about alcohol. It was during my second year of college when I first tried alcohol, coinciding with a college festival. I never considered it morally wrong, and in fact, over the years, I began consuming it during various social occasions. While I'm not a frequent drinker, I do partake occasionally. I used to recommend to those around me that they should drink, as it enhances the experience of socializing, having fun, and even intimate moments. However, the  youTube video i mentioned above featuring a couple of influential startup figures shed light on both the scientific evidence pointing to alcohol's detrimental effects on health, comparable to cigarettes, and its potential to facilitate socialization and alleviate stress and loneliness.

What I intend to explore in this blog is a third perspective—the damage alcohol inflicts on families and relationships. Many crimes, instances of domestic violence, infidelity, and monstrous acts are committed under the influence of alcohol. While we attribute these actions to the individuals involved, we cannot disregard the fact that we provide them with a tool that enables such behavior. In the United States, after every mass shooting, the shooter is apprehended, but we also discuss the issue of gun accessibility.

Consider what is born out of drunken nights—momentary dopamine rushes, subsequent morning regrets, and unpleasant hangovers, among other things. The alcohol industry wields significant power, yet society fails to recognize it as a pressing issue, despite its health risks being comparable, if not worse, than those of sugar.

But why do most people continue to consume alcohol? It's because they feel inadequate, and alcohol helps them believe otherwise. If alcohol had a motto, it would be:

"You're not enough.
You're not adventurous enough—drink me.
You're not fun enough—drink me.
You're not (fill-in-the-blank)—drink me."

It offers counterfeit confidence, counterfeit relaxation, counterfeit fun. It's akin to using a fake Snapchat filter for a few hours, except that everyone acknowledges that filters are artificial and solely aesthetic.

Now, let's consider another perspective. Imagine you are the mayor of a city with 100 families under your jurisdiction. You have the power to decide whether to provide alcohol to the residents or not. In a trial run over a month, you observe that 98 people have a great time with each other on Saturday nights, but two households experience crises—one with a case of domestic violence and the other with a partner's infidelity. What would your decision be? The actual numbers are not limited to just two, and the individuals indirectly affected would amount to millions. For as long as I can remember, I've heard stories from our housemaids recounting incidents of being beaten by their husbands under the influence of alcohol. I'm certain that anyone from India would have encountered similar stories. A popular subreddit, r/relationship_advice, is filled with stories of infidelity that often involve alcohol.

One could argue that in most cases, these people might have acted inappropriately even without alcohol, but the same argument applies to guns. The only distinction is that somehow, we have confidence in alcohol, believing that crises won't befall us. I, too, held this belief until it happened in my own home.

I acknowledge that this blog might not attract a large readership, but I hope that it sheds light on the underlying evil that resides within us. I've been alcohol-free for three weeks, and I aspire to remain true to my words by abstaining from alcohol entirely.
